task.md, before:

| command                     | option           | description                                                       |
| --------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| checkout                    | [branch][branch] | Switch and merge from one branch to another.                      |
| clear-filestore             | [db]             | Clear local filestore folder. No param will clear all filestores. |
| convert-database            | [db]             | Convert database backup file from postgres 9.5 to latest.         |
| create-module               | [path]           | Create new Odoo module from template.                             |
| disable-auto-install        |                  | Disable auto install for enterprise modules.                      |
| disable-mailserver          | [env]            | Disable mail server settings via xmlrpc.                          |
| change-uuid                 | [env]            | Change database uuid via xmlrpc.                                  |
| edit-env                    | [env]            | Open env file in default editor.                                  |
| drop-db                     | [db]             | Drop target Odoo database. Default is odoo.                       |
| git-list-submodules         |                  | List path and url of submodules.                                  |
| git-pull-submodules         |                  | Pull alls submodules.                                             |
| git-feature-branch          | [path]           | Create feature branch for Odoo module.                            |
| git-mig-branch              | [path]           | Create migration branch for Odoo module.                          |
| init-db                     | [db]             | Initialize the Odoo database. Default is odoo                     |
| init-next-env               | [env]            | Create env file for Nextcloud instance.                           |
| init-odoo-env               | [env]            | Create env file for Odoo Instance.                                |
| list-odoo-env               |                  | List odoo env files.                                              |
| init-venv                   |                  | Initialize python virtual env.                                    |
| install-module              | [db][name,path]  | Install target Odoo module.                                       |
| install-odoo-scripts        |                  | Install Odoo scripts.                                             |
| install-native              |                  | Install Odoo requirements in source folder.                       |
| kill                        |                  | Remove docker containers and volumes.                             |
| lint-module                 | [path]           | Run pylint odoo for module.                                       |
| lint-snippets               |                  | Run checks for all snippets.                                      |
| logs                        |                  | Tail Odoo Docker container logs.                                  |
| list                        |                  | List docker services.                                             |
| ps                          |                  | List docker processes.                                            |
| odoo-cloc                   | [db]             | Count custom line of codes.                                       |
| patch-database              | [db][path]       | Apply sql file to database                                        |
| release-module              | [path]           | Create GitHub release for a module.                               |
| remove-module               | [db][name]       | Remove target Odoo module.                                        |
| remove-submodule            | [path]           | Remove git submodule.                                             |
| restart                     | [name]           | Restart docker container.                                         |
| start                       | [name]           | Start docker container.                                           |
| save-config                 | [name]           | Save Odoo database config                                         |
| start-psql                  | [db]             | Start PSQL shell in Docker container.                             |
| start-shell                 | [db]             | Start Odoo shell from source folder.                              |
| set-admin                   | [db]             | Sets the password for the first user in database.                 |
| stop                        | [name]           | Stop docker containers.                                           |
| test-module                 | [db][name,path]  | Test target Odoo module.                                          |
| update-config               |                  | Update odoo config.                                               |
| update-app-list             | [db]             | Update app list.                                                  |
| update-module               | [db][name,path]  | Update target Odoo module.                                        |
| update-snippet              | [env][path]      | Update snippet xml definition.                                    |
| install-snippet             | [env][path]      | Install snippet xml definition.                                   |
| upload-module               | [env][path]      | Zip and upload Odoo module.                                       |
| generate-module-translation | [env][path]      | Generate translation for Odoo module.                             |
| zip-module                  | [path]           | Create zip file for module.                                       |
| restore-database            | [path][name]     | Restore target database zip.                                      |
| update-docs                 |                  | Update project docs.                                              |
| source                      |                  | Source the Python virtual env.                                    |
| send-support-mail           |                  | Send mail to support@local.                                       |

Commit message:

new task to checkout revision

task.md, after:

| command                     | option           | description                                                       |
| --------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| checkout                    | [branch][branch] | Switch and merge from one branch to another.                      |
| checkout-revision           | [revision]       | Switch to a different Odoo revision by tag name.                  |
| clear-filestore             | [db]             | Clear local filestore folder. No param will clear all filestores. |
| convert-database            | [db]             | Convert database backup file from postgres 9.5 to latest.         |
| create-module               | [path]           | Create new Odoo module from template.                             |
| disable-auto-install        |                  | Disable auto install for enterprise modules.                      |
| disable-mailserver          | [env]            | Disable mail server settings via xmlrpc.                          |
| change-uuid                 | [env]            | Change database uuid via xmlrpc.                                  |
| edit-env                    | [env]            | Open env file in default editor.                                  |
| drop-db                     | [db]             | Drop target Odoo database. Default is odoo.                       |
| git-list-submodules         |                  | List path and url of submodules.                                  |
| git-pull-submodules         |                  | Pull alls submodules.                                             |
| git-feature-branch          | [path]           | Create feature branch for Odoo module.                            |
| git-mig-branch              | [path]           | Create migration branch for Odoo module.                          |
| init-db                     | [db]             | Initialize the Odoo database. Default is odoo                     |
| init-next-env               | [env]            | Create env file for Nextcloud instance.                           |
| init-odoo-env               | [env]            | Create env file for Odoo Instance.                                |
| list-odoo-env               |                  | List odoo env files.                                              |
| init-venv                   |                  | Initialize python virtual env.                                    |
| install-module              | [db][name,path]  | Install target Odoo module.                                       |
| install-odoo-scripts        |                  | Install Odoo scripts.                                             |
| install-native              |                  | Install Odoo requirements in source folder.                       |
| kill                        |                  | Remove docker containers and volumes.                             |
| lint-module                 | [path]           | Run pylint odoo for module.                                       |
| lint-snippets               |                  | Run checks for all snippets.                                      |
| logs                        |                  | Tail Odoo Docker container logs.                                  |
| list                        |                  | List docker services.                                             |
| ps                          |                  | List docker processes.                                            |
| odoo-cloc                   | [db]             | Count custom line of codes.                                       |
| patch-database              | [db][path]       | Apply sql file to database                                        |
| release-module              | [path]           | Create GitHub release for a module.                               |
| remove-module               | [db][name]       | Remove target Odoo module.                                        |
| remove-submodule            | [path]           | Remove git submodule.                                             |
| restart                     | [name]           | Restart docker container.                                         |
| start                       | [name]           | Start docker container.                                           |
| save-config                 | [name]           | Save Odoo database config                                         |
| start-psql                  | [db]             | Start PSQL shell in Docker container.                             |
| start-shell                 | [db]             | Start Odoo shell from source folder.                              |
| set-admin                   | [db]             | Sets the password for the first user in database.                 |
| stop                        | [name]           | Stop docker containers.                                           |
| test-module                 | [db][name,path]  | Test target Odoo module.                                          |
| update-config               |                  | Update odoo config.                                               |
| update-app-list             | [db]             | Update app list.                                                  |
| update-module               | [db][name,path]  | Update target Odoo module.                                        |
| update-snippet              | [env][path]      | Update snippet xml definition.                                    |
| install-snippet             | [env][path]      | Install snippet xml definition.                                   |
| upload-module               | [env][path]      | Zip and upload Odoo module.                                       |
| generate-module-translation | [env][path]      | Generate translation for Odoo module.                             |
| zip-module                  | [path]           | Create zip file for module.                                       |
| restore-database            | [path][name]     | Restore target database zip.                                      |
| update-docs                 |                  | Update project docs.                                              |
| source                      |                  | Source the Python virtual env.                                    |
| send-support-mail           |                  | Send mail to support@local.                                       |
