upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrade

The Odoo Build project assists you in running upgrades for any Odoo project. This document provides a highly opinionated way to connect Odoo Build with an existing Odoo enviroment and execute the upgrade.

## Setup

Odoo Build provies task file commands that take `env` as an argument. The `env` is reference to the name of a dotfile (`vault/.env.$NAME`). These files are managed with with the `*-env` commands.

Setting up a Odoo upgrade project requires the creation of a dotenv file. This guide assumes that we have the following setup:

- Our customer is `Acme Corporation`
- The production server is `host1.example.com` and the upgrade server is `host2.example.com`
- Odoo 16.0 production instance is running at `https://odoo.example.com`
- Odoo 18.0 upgrade environment is running at `https://upgrade.odoo.example.com`
- The Odoo setup is docker based. The Postgres containers have a different version
- Name of Odoo databases depends on the subdomain of the url

Get started by creating the `vault` folder.

```bash
task init-dotenv-dir
```

Then create a dotenv file for the upgrade project.

```bash
task create-env acme upgrade
```

This will create the file with the upgrade template. Edit the file.

```bash
task edit-env acme
```

Update the configs with the definition of your enviroment.

- `HOST`: Hostname of the Odoo pruction instance
- `SERVER`: SSH url to access the pruction server
- `PORT`: SSH port of server
- `ODOO_CONTAINER`: Name of production Odoo Docker container
- `ODOO_VERSION`: Version of Odoo production
- `POSTGRES_CONTAINER`: Name of production Postgres Docker container
- `DATABASE`: Name of production database
- `TARGET_HOST`: Hostname of the Odoo upgrade instance.
- `TARGET_SERVER`: SSH url to access the upgrade server
- `TARGET_PORT`: SSH port of server
- `TARGET_ODOO_CONTAINER`: Name of upgrade Odoo Docker container
- `TARGET_ODOO_VERSION`: Version of Odoo upgrade
- `TARGET_POSTGRES_CONTAINER`: Name of upgrade Postgres Docker container
- `TARGET_DATABASE`: Name of upgrade database

In our case the definition is:

```bash
HOST='odoo.example.com'
SERVER='host1.example.com'
PORT=22
ODOO_CONTAINER='odoo01'
ODOO_VERSION='16.0'
POSTGRES_CONTAINER='postgres01'
DATABASE='odoo'

TARGET_HOST='upgrade.odoo.example.com'
TARGET_SERVER='host2.example.com'
TARGET_PORT=22
TARGET_ODOO_CONTAINER='odoo02'
TARGET_ODOO_VERSION='18.0'
TARGET_POSTGRES_CONTAINER='postgres02'
TARGET_DATABASE='upgrade'
```

Note that the `HOST` and `TARGET_HOST` is a reference to another dotfile.

### Helper Scripts

Running the upgrade requires scripts on the servers. Ensure that the following scripts are installed on the server:

- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#docker> provides generic Docker container commands
- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#odoo> helps managing the Odoo container
- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#postgres> supports managing the Postgres container

You probably have become aware thats project and the upgrade process uses scripts and containers from different projects. Here is a list of projects involved to run the upgrade:

- <https://taskfile.build> provides the basic commands to manage the dotfiles
- <https://odoo.build> which is this project, provides the commands to run the upgrade steps
- <https://ansible.build> as mentioned this repo has the scripts to manage containers on the server

## Test Run

Before going live with an upgraded Odoo database, the new enviroments needs to be tested thoroughly . An upgrade run copies the production database and runs the Odoo Enterprise upgrade script in test mode. On sucess a neutralized and upgraded database will be ready for testing.

### Execute

All the steps required to provide an upgraded database can be run with: `task upgrade-odoo acme all-test`

This command executes several steps. List the steps with `task upgrade-odoo acme list`. Here are the details of each step:

**dump**

Dump and restore the production database on the Postgres container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme dump
```

**filestore**

Export and import the Odoo filestore.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme filestore
```

**drop**

Drop the existing upgrade database.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme drop
```

**test**

Run the Odoo upgrade scripts in test mode.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme test
```

**clear-assets**

Clear Odoo assets.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme clear-assets
```

**uninstall**

Uninstall modules on the upgraded database.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_ADDONS_UNINSTALL=board_user_acl,l10n_din5008_expense`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme uninstall
```

**init**

Init modules on the upgraded database.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_ADDONS_INIT=web_environment_ribbon`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme init
```

**auto-update**

Calls the `upgrade_changed_checksum` method.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme auto-update
```

**update**

Update all modules and clear assets.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme update
```

**configure-test**

Run custom Python code in Odoo shell.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_CONFIGURE_TEST="env.ref('mail.ir_cron_module_update_notification').write({'active': False})"`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme configure-test
```

For production use `ODOO_CONFIGURE_PRODUCTION`.

**restart**

Restart target Odoo and Postgres container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme restart
```

### Troubleshooting

There are additional commands for troubleshooting:

**logs**

Show log of target Odoo container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme logs
```

**shell**

Start shell in target Odoo container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme shell
```

### Configure

With heavily customized Odoo databases and new features you have to make configurations that cannot be automated for an upgrade project. These configurations need to be done manually.

Once the test enviroment is ready, log in and execute the manual configuration.

### Testing

The testing of an upgraded Odoo database is done in collaboration between the Odoo partner and customer. Define test cases that verify the customer's workflows. Collect feedback and establish a feedback loop of testing, documenting issues, bugfixing and redo the upgrade process.

Repeat this feedback loop until you are confident that the upgraded works well. Do not aim for 100% test coverage. Minor issues can be resolved in the post production upgrade phase.

## Production Run

Once the testing phase of the upgrade project has finished and a date for the go-live has been chosen, run the upgrade in production mode.

In this scenario we ensure that the url `https://odoo.example.com` points to the new container after the upgrade.

### Execute

In order to run the production upgrade execute `task upgrade-odoo acme all-production`.

Similar to `all-test` this command runs all comands, but instead of **test** it runs **production**.

Run the Odoo upgrade scripts in test mode

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme production
```

And instead of **configure-test** the command runs **configure-production**.

### Configure

Once the production enviroment is ready, execute the the manual configuration steps as you did in the test enviroment.

### Testing

Run simple smoke tests. Ensure that the upgrade wenn well. There is no need to execute the test cases.

### Rename

Until here it is still possible to abort the go-live. To go-live means to rename the target database to the original database name and ensure that `https://odoo.example.com` points to the target environment. Use this command to rename the databse:

**rename-production**

Rename target database to source database.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme rename-production
```

As the final step, update DNS records and/or proxy configuration so that `https://odoo.example.com` points to `host2.example.com`.

### Recovery

If something goes wrong after the go-live, fallback to the old envirment. Simply revert the DNS update and/or the proxy configuration.

### Cleanup

After a week of working successfully with the upgraded database, it is safe to sunset the original server and/or Odoo enviroment.

In our example this means shutting down the `odoo01` container and the `host1.example.com` server.

Ensure that `https://upgrade.odoo.example.com` no longer resolves.

Commit message:

feat(task): support SSH jump hosts in upgrade-odoo by introducing JUMP_HOST and TARGET_JUMP_HOST variables

upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrade

The Odoo Build project assists you in running upgrades for any Odoo project. This document provides a highly opinionated way to connect Odoo Build with an existing Odoo enviroment and execute the upgrade.

## Setup

Odoo Build provies task file commands that take `env` as an argument. The `env` is reference to the name of a dotfile (`vault/.env.$NAME`). These files are managed with with the `*-env` commands.

Setting up a Odoo upgrade project requires the creation of a dotenv file. This guide assumes that we have the following setup:

- Our customer is `Acme Corporation`
- The production server is `host1.example.com` and the upgrade server is `host2.example.com`
- Odoo 16.0 production instance is running at `https://odoo.example.com`
- Odoo 18.0 upgrade environment is running at `https://upgrade.odoo.example.com`
- The Odoo setup is docker based. The Postgres containers have a different version
- Name of Odoo databases depends on the subdomain of the url

Get started by creating the `vault` folder.

```bash
task init-dotenv-dir
```

Then create a dotenv file for the upgrade project.

```bash
task create-env acme upgrade
```

This will create the file with the upgrade template. Edit the file.

```bash
task edit-env acme
```

Update the configs with the definition of your enviroment.

- `HOST`: Hostname of the Odoo pruction instance
- `SERVER`: SSH url to access the pruction server
- `PORT`: SSH port of server
- `ODOO_CONTAINER`: Name of production Odoo Docker container
- `ODOO_VERSION`: Version of Odoo production
- `POSTGRES_CONTAINER`: Name of production Postgres Docker container
- `DATABASE`: Name of production database
- `TARGET_HOST`: Hostname of the Odoo upgrade instance.
- `TARGET_SERVER`: SSH url to access the upgrade server
- `TARGET_PORT`: SSH port of server
- `TARGET_ODOO_CONTAINER`: Name of upgrade Odoo Docker container
- `TARGET_ODOO_VERSION`: Version of Odoo upgrade
- `TARGET_POSTGRES_CONTAINER`: Name of upgrade Postgres Docker container
- `TARGET_DATABASE`: Name of upgrade database

In our case the definition is:

```bash
HOST='odoo.example.com'
SERVER='host1.example.com'
PORT=22
ODOO_CONTAINER='odoo01'
ODOO_VERSION='16.0'
POSTGRES_CONTAINER='postgres01'
DATABASE='odoo'

TARGET_HOST='upgrade.odoo.example.com'
TARGET_SERVER='host2.example.com'
TARGET_PORT=22
TARGET_ODOO_CONTAINER='odoo02'
TARGET_ODOO_VERSION='18.0'
TARGET_POSTGRES_CONTAINER='postgres02'
TARGET_DATABASE='upgrade'
```

Note that the `HOST` and `TARGET_HOST` is a reference to another dotfile.

There is also `JUMP_HOST` and `TARGET_JUMP_HOST` to define the SSH jump host.

### Helper Scripts

Running the upgrade requires scripts on the servers. Ensure that the following scripts are installed on the server:

- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#docker> provides generic Docker container commands
- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#odoo> helps managing the Odoo container
- <https://ansible.build/scripts.html#postgres> supports managing the Postgres container

You probably have become aware thats project and the upgrade process uses scripts and containers from different projects. Here is a list of projects involved to run the upgrade:

- <https://taskfile.build> provides the basic commands to manage the dotfiles
- <https://odoo.build> which is this project, provides the commands to run the upgrade steps
- <https://ansible.build> as mentioned this repo has the scripts to manage containers on the server

## Test Run

Before going live with an upgraded Odoo database, the new enviroments needs to be tested thoroughly . An upgrade run copies the production database and runs the Odoo Enterprise upgrade script in test mode. On sucess a neutralized and upgraded database will be ready for testing.

### Execute

All the steps required to provide an upgraded database can be run with: `task upgrade-odoo acme all-test`

This command executes several steps. List the steps with `task upgrade-odoo acme list`. Here are the details of each step:

**dump**

Dump and restore the production database on the Postgres container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme dump
```

**filestore**

Export and import the Odoo filestore.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme filestore
```

**drop**

Drop the existing upgrade database.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme drop
```

**test**

Run the Odoo upgrade scripts in test mode.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme test
```

**clear-assets**

Clear Odoo assets.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme clear-assets
```

**uninstall**

Uninstall modules on the upgraded database.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_ADDONS_UNINSTALL=board_user_acl,l10n_din5008_expense`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme uninstall
```

**init**

Init modules on the upgraded database.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_ADDONS_INIT=web_environment_ribbon`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme init
```

**auto-update**

Calls the `upgrade_changed_checksum` method.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme auto-update
```

**update**

Update all modules and clear assets.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme update
```

**configure-test**

Run custom Python code in Odoo shell.

This step requires an env var: `ODOO_CONFIGURE_TEST="env.ref('mail.ir_cron_module_update_notification').write({'active': False})"`

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme configure-test
```

For production use `ODOO_CONFIGURE_PRODUCTION`.

**restart**

Restart target Odoo and Postgres container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme restart
```

### Troubleshooting

There are additional commands for troubleshooting:

**logs**

Show log of target Odoo container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme logs
```

**shell**

Start shell in target Odoo container.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme shell
```

### Configure

With heavily customized Odoo databases and new features you have to make configurations that cannot be automated for an upgrade project. These configurations need to be done manually.

Once the test enviroment is ready, log in and execute the manual configuration.

### Testing

The testing of an upgraded Odoo database is done in collaboration between the Odoo partner and customer. Define test cases that verify the customer's workflows. Collect feedback and establish a feedback loop of testing, documenting issues, bugfixing and redo the upgrade process.

Repeat this feedback loop until you are confident that the upgraded works well. Do not aim for 100% test coverage. Minor issues can be resolved in the post production upgrade phase.

## Production Run

Once the testing phase of the upgrade project has finished and a date for the go-live has been chosen, run the upgrade in production mode.

In this scenario we ensure that the url `https://odoo.example.com` points to the new container after the upgrade.

### Execute

In order to run the production upgrade execute `task upgrade-odoo acme all-production`.

Similar to `all-test` this command runs all comands, but instead of **test** it runs **production**.

Run the Odoo upgrade scripts in test mode

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme production
```

And instead of **configure-test** the command runs **configure-production**.

### Configure

Once the production enviroment is ready, execute the the manual configuration steps as you did in the test enviroment.

### Testing

Run simple smoke tests. Ensure that the upgrade wenn well. There is no need to execute the test cases.

### Rename

Until here it is still possible to abort the go-live. To go-live means to rename the target database to the original database name and ensure that `https://odoo.example.com` points to the target environment. Use this command to rename the databse:

**rename-production**

Rename target database to source database.

```bash
task upgrade-odoo acme rename-production
```

As the final step, update DNS records and/or proxy configuration so that `https://odoo.example.com` points to `host2.example.com`.

### Recovery

If something goes wrong after the go-live, fallback to the old envirment. Simply revert the DNS update and/or the proxy configuration.

### Cleanup

After a week of working successfully with the upgraded database, it is safe to sunset the original server and/or Odoo enviroment.

In our example this means shutting down the `odoo01` container and the `host1.example.com` server.

Ensure that `https://upgrade.odoo.example.com` no longer resolves.
