images/odoo/README.md, before:

[Mint System Odoo](https://odoo.build/images/odoo/)
===

[![Docker pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mintsystem/odoo)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mintsystem/odoo/)

A better Odoo image.

This container image is an improvement of the official Odoo image:

- 📦 Package management is handled with [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for Python and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) for Node.
- 🔄 The Odoo source is based on a specific [revision](https://odoo.build/revisions.html).
- 💎 The image build process ensures reproducibility.
- ⚙️ Configuration of `odoo.conf` is managed through environment variables.
- 🌱 Addons are cloned from git repositories.
- 🛠️ Python packages can be installed without rebuilding the image.
- 📂 The system detects addons in nested module folders.
- 💾 Session information can be stored in the database.
- 🖥️ Environment name is retrieved from server configuration.
- 📋 Database initialization with selected modules.
- 📜 The image includes built-in [manifestoo](https://github.com/acsone/manifestoo) and [click-odoo-contrib](https://github.com/acsone/click-odoo-contrib).
- 🪴 The container runs without requiring root privileges.
- ✂️ Reduced image size through multi-stage build and file cleanup.
- 👀 Use the image to run module tests and create code coverage report.
- 🏥 Image has a built-in health check.

Source: <https://github.com/Mint-System/Odoo-Build/tree/main/images/odoo/>

Changelog: <https://odoo.build/images/odoo/CHANGELOG.html>

## Usage

The Mint System Odoo image runs with a very basic configuration, but can also be highly customized with environment variables.

Supported tags:

* `19.0.20251008`, `19.0`
* `18.0.20251008`, `18.0`
* `17.0.20251008`, `17.0`
* `16.0.20251008`, `16.0`

### Minimal

The following `compose.yml` is a minimal setup:

```yml
services:
  odoo:
    container_name: odoo
    image: mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      PGHOST: db
      PGUSER: odoo
      PGPASSWORD: odoo
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:8069:8069"
    volumes:
      - odoo-data:/var/lib/odoo
  db:
    container_name: db
    image: postgres:14-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: odoo
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: odoo
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
volumes:
  odoo-data:
  db-data:
```

### Customized

This `compose.yml` shows all possible configurations:

```yml
services:
  odoo:
    container_name: odoo
    image: mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008
    depends_on:
        db:
            condition: service_healthy
    environment:
      PGHOST: db
      PGUSER: odoo
      PGPASSWORD: odoo
      PGPORT: 5432
      DB_NAME: odoo
      DB_MAXCONN: 128
      PGSSLMODE: verify-ca
      PGSSLROOTCERT: /mnt/postgres-secret/ca.crt
      SMTP_SERVER: mail.infomaniak.com
      SMTP_PORT: 587
      SMTP_SSL: True
      SMTP_USER: odoo@yourcompany.com
      SMTP_PASSWORD: *****
      EMAIL_FROM: odoo@yourcompany.com
      MAIL_BOUNCE_ALIAS: bounce
      MAIL_CATCHALL_ALIAS: reply
      MAIL_CATCHALL_DOMAIN: yourcompany.com
      MAIL_DEFAULT_FROM: odoo
      MAIL_ALIAS_DOMAIN: yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_HOST: mail.infomaniak.com
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_PORT: 587
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_ENCRYPTION: starttls
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_FROM_FILTER: odoo@yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_HOST: mail.infomaniak.com
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_PORT: 993
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_SSL: True
      ODOO_MAIL_USERNAME: odoo@yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_PASSWORD: *****
      GIT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEY: "ssh-ed25519 BBBBC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5BBBBIDR9Ibi0mATjCyx1EYg594oFkY0rghtgo+pnFHOvAcym Mint-System-Project-MCC@github.com"
      GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY: "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBPUEVOU1NIIFBSSVZBVEUgS0VZLS0tLQpiM0JsYm5OemFDMXJaWGt0ZGpFQUFBQUFCRzV2Ym1VQUFBQUVibTl1WlFBQUFBQUFBQUFCQUFBQU13QUFBQXR6YzJndFpXClF5TlRVeE9RQUFBQ0EwZlNHNHRKZ0U0d3NzZFJHSU9mZUtCWkdOSzRJYllLUHFaeFJ6cndITXBnQUFBS2k1WkJhRnVXUVcKaFFBQUFBdHpjMmd0WldReU5UVXhPUUFBQUNBMGZTRzR0SmdFNHdzc2RSR0lPZmVLQlpTks0SWJZS1BxWnhSenJ3SE1wZwowQkFnTT0KLS0tLS1FTkQgT1BFTlNTSCBQUklWQVRFIEtFWS0tLS0tCg=="
      GITHUB_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      GITHUB_PAT: *****
      GITLAB_URL: https://gitlab.com
      GITLAB_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      GITLAB_PAT: *****
      FORGEJO_URL: https://codeberg.org
      FORGEJO_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      FORGEJO_PAT: *****
      ADDONS_GIT_REPOS: "git@github.com:Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.git#16.0,git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git#16.0"
      ODOO_ADDONS_PATH: /mnt/addons/,/mnt/enterprise/,/mnt/oca/,/mnt/themes/
      ODOO_DATABASE: "16.0"
      ODOO_INIT_LOGIN: odoo
      ODOO_INIT_PASSWORD: *****
      ODOO_INIT_LANG: de_CH
      ODOO_INIT_ADDONS: server_environment_ir_config_parameter
      RUNNING_ENV: production
      WITHOUT_DEMO: False
      PYTHON_INSTALL: prometheus-client
      SERVER_WIDE_MODULES: session_db,module_change_auto_install
      SESSION_DB_URI: postgres://odoo:odoo@db/16.0
      PROXY_MODE: False
      LOG_LEVEL: debug
      MAX_CRON_THREADS: 4
      LIST_DB: True
      LOG_DB: True
      LOG_HANDLER: [':INFO']
      LOGFILE: None
      ADMIN_PASSWD: *****
      DB_FILTER: ^%d$
      WORKERS: 4
      LIMIT_REQUEST: 16384
      LIMIT_TIME_CPU: 300
      LIMIT_TIME_REAL: 600
      LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD: 2684354560
      LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT: 2147483648
      LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD_GEVENT: 1048579
      LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT_GEVENT: 1048576
      MODULE_AUTO_INSTALL_DISABLED: odoo_test_xmlrunner
      AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES: True
      TEST_ADDONS_DIR: /mnt/oca/partner-contact
      TEST_INCLUDE: partner_firstname
      TEST_EXCLUDE: partner_fax
      AUTO_UPDATE_TRANSLATIONS: True
      AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES_LIST: True
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:8069:8069"
    volumes:
      - odoo-data:/var/lib/odoo
      - ./addons:/mnt/addons
      - ./oca:/mnt/oca
      - ./enterprise:/mnt/enterprise
      - ./themes:/mnt/themes
  db:
    container_name: db
    image: postgres:14-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: odoo
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: odoo
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U odoo -d $ODOO_DATABASE"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5
volumes:
  odoo-data:
  db-data:
```

The environment variables are explained in detail further down.

## Lifecycle

The Mint System Odoo image has this container lifecycle in mind:

* **Initialize**: Clone addons and initialize the database.
* **Start**: The container starts and updates the execution environment.
* **Execute**: Actions performed while the container is running.
* **Analyze**: Analyse the current state of the container.
* **Test**: Test modules in the container.

### Initialize

Before starting the container you can initalize the database with selected scripts.

Run the `download-git-archive` script to download the Odoo Enterprise modules:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo download-git-archive
```

Run the `clone-git-addons` script to clone module repos:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo clone-git-addons
```

Run the `init-db` script to initalize the Odoo database:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo init-db
```

The scripts are configured with environment variables.

### Start

Once you start the container the `entrypoint.sh` script will:

* Call the `aggregate-git-repos` script and clone modules.
* Run the `template-odoo-rc` script to template the `odoo.conf` file.
* While doing so assemble the addons path with `set-addons-path`.
* Run the `install-python-packages` script to install the Python packages.
* Wait for the database to be ready.
* Run the `update-modules` script if enabled.
* Run the `update-modules-list` script if enabled.
* Run the `update-translations` script if enabled.
* Start the Odoo server.

### Execute

Once the container is running, install modules with:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo init-module partner_firstname
```

Or update specific modules with this command:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-module partner_firstname
```

There is also the possiblity to update all modules:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-modules
```

Or update the modules list (refresh the list of available modules from the addons path):

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-modules-list
```

For each installed module Odoo computes and stores a checksum in the database. The update modules script compares the checksum and updates all modules that have changed.

Updating module translations is simple:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-translations
```

Not that existing translations will be overwritten.

### Analyze

With the [manifestoo](https://github.com/acsone/manifestoo) cli you can query the module manifest files.

List all modules:

```bash
docker exec odoo bash -c "manifestoo --select-found list --separator=,"
```

### Test

The `run-tests` script runs module tests and produces a `coverage.xml` file.

But first the server environment must be prepared to run tests.

```bash
docker exec odoo setup-tests
```

Once this command is finished, run the module tests.

```bash
docker exec odoo run-tests
```

## Environment Variables

The container can be configured with environment variables. This section shows all the variables in detail:

### Database Connection

Odoo supports the PostgreSQL database only.

* `PGHOST` Name of the database container.
* `PGUSER` Database username.
* `PGPASSWORD` Database user password.
* `PGPORT` Postgres server port. Default is `5432`.
* `DB_NAME` Fixed database name. Default is ``.
* `DB_MAXCONN`: Maximum database connection. default is `64`.
* `PGSSLMODE`: SSL mode for postgres connection. Default is `prefer`.
* `PGSSLROOTCERT`: Path too ssl root cert. Required when using `verify-ca` mode.

### SMTP Server

This is the mail configuration of the Odoo server.

* `SMTP_SERVER` Adress of the SMTP server.
* `SMTP_PORT` Port of the SMTP server.
* `SMTP_SSL` Use ssl encryption.
* `SMTP_USER` SMTP username.
* `SMTP_PASSWORD` SMTP user password.
* `EMAIL_FROM` Mail adress of the sender.

### System Parameters

Set mail parameters for the company.

* `MAIL_BOUNCE_ALIAS`: Name of the bounce mail adress.
* `MAIL_CATCHALL_ALIAS`: Name of the reply-to mail adress.
* `MAIL_CATCHALL_DOMAIN`: Domain name of the reply-to mail address.
* `MAIL_DEFAULT_FROM`: From address for outgoing mails.
* `MAIL_ALIAS_DOMAIN`: Mail domain of the company.

### Incoming and Outgoing Mail-Server

Setup mail configuration for the database.

* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_HOST`: If set Odoo sends mails to this host.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_PORT`: SMTP port. Default is `587`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_ENCRYPTION`: SMTP encryption type. Default is `starttls`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_FROM_FILTER`: Send mails from this address only. Default is `""`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_HOST`: If set Odoo fetches mails from this host.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_PORT`: IMAP port. Default is `993`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_SSL`: Enable IMAP SSL. Default is `True`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_USERNAME`: Username of the Odoo mailbox.
* `ODOO_MAIL_PASSWORD`: Password of the Odoo mailbox.

The configuration will be applied to the `ODOO_DATABASE` database.

### Module Repos

The image can clone git repositories.

* `GIT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEY`: Public key for SSH connection.
* `GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`: Base64 encoded private key for SSH connection: `cat ~/.ssh/id_ed2551 | base64 -w0`
* `GITHUB_USERNAME` GitHub username for https git clone and archive download.
* `GITHUB_PAT`: GitHub access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `GITLAB_URL`: Url of GitLab instance. Default is `https://gitlab.com`.
* `GITLAB_USERNAME`: GitLab Username for https git clone.
* `GITLAB_PAT`: GitLab access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `FORGEJO_URL`: Url of Forgejo instance. Default is `https://codeberg.org`.
* `FORGEJO_USERNAME`: Forgejo Username for https git clone.
* `FORGEJO_PAT`: Forgejo access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `ADDONS_GIT_REPOS` Comma seperated list of git clone urls appended with `#` and branch name.

You can use https and git urls for `ADDONS_GIT_REPOS`:

```bash
ADDON_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git#16.0,git@github.com:Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.gi#16.0
ADDON_GIT_REPO=https://github.com/OCA/server-tools.git#16.0,https://github.com/Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.gi#16.0
```

If you use a git url make sure a valid SSH private/public key is defined.

### Addons Path

The entrypoint script searches for module folders in the addons path and creates a new addons path.

* `ODOO_ADDONS_PATH` Comma seperated list of container paths pointing to addon folders.

### Initialize

Set these environment variables for the database init:

* `ODOO_DATABASE` Name of the Odoo database for initialisation.
* `ODOO_INIT_LOGIN` Username of the admin user. Default is `admin`.
* `ODOO_INIT_PASSWORD` Password of the admin user. Default is `admin`.
* `ODOO_INIT_LANG` Language used for database init. Default is `en_US`.
* `ODOO_INIT_ADDONS` Provide comma separated list of modules for database init. Default is `web`.
* `WITHOUT_DEMO` If enabled Odoo inits the database with demo data. Default is `True`.

### Server Environment

The Odoo server can be configured using these env vars:

* `RUNNING_ENV` Provide an environment name. Can be accessed with `config.get("environment")`.
* `PYTHON_INSTALL` Comma seperated list of python packages.
* `SERVER_WIDE_MODULES` Comma separated list of modules to load with server. The variable will be prefixed with `base,web`.
* `SESSION_DB_URI` Connection string for storing session data in database.
* `PROXY_MODE` Enable server proxy mode. Default is `True`.
* `LOG_LEVEL` Set the logging level. Default is `info`.
* `LOG_DB` When enabled the database log is shown in the Odoo log. Default is `False`.
* `LOG_HANDLER` Define the log handler. Default is `[':INFO']`.
* `LOGFILE` Set the logging level. Default is `None`.

### Database Manager

The Odoo database manager is disabled by default.

* `LIST_DB` Enable the database manager. Default is `False`.
* `ADMIN_PASSWD` Master password for database manager. Default is `odoo`.
* `DB_FILTER` Set filter for database name. Default is `.*`.

### Process Limits

Odoo is executed as a multi-threaded Python process.

* `MAX_CRON_THREADS` Maximum count of cron threads. Default is `2`.
* `WORKERS` Define how many workers should be spawned. Default is `0`.
* `LIMIT_REQUEST` Maximum number of requests per worker. Default is `65536`.
* `LIMIT_TIME_CPU` Maximum cpu time per request. Default is `60`.
* `LIMIT_TIME_REAL` Maximum real time per request. Default is `120`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD` Hard memory limit for the Odoo process. Default is `2560 * 1024 * 1024`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT` Soft memory limit for the Odoo process. Default is `2048 * 1024 * 1024`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD_GEVENT` Set hard memory limit for the gevent process. Default is `False`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT_GEVENT` Set soft memory limit for the gevent process. Default is `False`.

To calculate the amount of workers multply the amount of cpu cores by 2. To get the cpu core count run `nproc`.

### Module Auto Install

With the `module_change_auto_install` module you can disable the auto installation of specific modules.

* `MODULE_AUTO_INSTALL_DISABLED` Comma separated list of modules that should be auto installed. Requires `module_change_auto_install` in `SERVER_WIDE_MODULES`.

### Module Auto Update

The container uses [click-odoo-contrib](https://github.com/acsone/click-odoo-contrib) to update Odoo modules. The auto update is disabled by default.

* `AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES` If enabled modules will updated when the container is started.  Default is `False`.
* `AUTO_UPDATE_TRANSLATIONS` If enabled translatiosn will be updated when the container starts. Default is `False`.
* `AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES_LIST` If enabled, the modules list will be updated when the container starts. Default is `False`.

Both options require `ODOO_DATABASE` and `ODOO_ADDONS_PATH`.

### Test

With this image you can also run module tests.

* `TEST_ADDONS_DIR`: Provide the directory with the modules that should be tests.
* `TEST_INCLUDE` Comma separated list of modules that should be test exlusively.
* `TEST_EXCLUDE`: Comma separated list of modules that should not be tested.

### Naming

This image tries to stay compatible with other images such as <https://github.com/acsone/odoo-bedrock> or <https://github.com/Tecnativa/doodba>.

Compatibility with other images is mainly achieved by using the same environments variables and offering the same functionality.

## Files

### Git Aggregator

The image includes [git-aggregator](https://github.com/acsone/git-aggregator). It allows to clone and merge addon repos from different origins and branches.

When mounting your `repos.yml` to `/var/lib/odoo/git/repos.yml` the `entrypoint.sh` will run the `gitaggregate` command in the directory.

Here is an example for `repos.yml`:

```yaml
github/oca/server-tools:
  remotes:
    oca: git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git
  merges:
    - oca 18.0
  target: oca 18.0
```

## Build

This image can be customized by any extend.

### Install packages

Update the image with Python packages.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

RUN uv pip install prometheus-client astor fastapi python-multipart ujson a2wsgi parse-accept-language pyjwt
```

Or with apt packages.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y libgl1-mesa-glx poppler-utils tesseract-ocr
```

### Add custom Odoo conf

Copy custom Odoo conf file to the image.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

COPY ./odoo.conf.template /etc/odoo/
```

## Develop

See [Odoo Build > Build and publish container image](https://odoo.build/#build-and-publish-container-image) for details.

### Internal paths

The most important image paths are:

* `/etc/odoo` Contains the `odoo.conf` and `odoo.conf.template` files.
* `/mnt/extra-addons` Nested are loaded from this path by default.
* `/mnt/test-addons` Recommended mount path for modules to test.
* `/opt/odoo/addons` Contains the Odoo Community Edition modules.
* `/opt/odoo/enterprise` Odoo Enterprise modules are downloaded to this folder.
* `/opt/odoo-venv` This is where Python packages are installed.
* `/var/lib/odoo` Odoo data folder.
* `/var/lib/odoo/filestore` For every database name Odoo creates a filestore.
* `/var/lib/odoo/sessions` Location where werkzeug stores session information.
* `/var/lib/odoo/git` The cloned module repos are stored here.

### Capture memory profile

With [memray](https://bloomberg.github.io/memray/) you can visualize the memory usage of Odoo.

Run Odoo with memray.

```bash
docker compose exec -p 127.0.0.1:8069:8069 odoo memray
```

Finish the recording with <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>.

Generate the flamegraph and copy the flamegraph to the host.

```bash
docker compose exec odoo python3 -m memray flamegraph /var/lib/odoo/memray-capture.bin
docker cp odoo:/var/lib/odoo/memray-flamegraph-capture.html ./tmp/
```

Commit message:

feat(config): add support for custom odoo.conf sections via env vars
- Introduce `ADDITIONAL_ODOO_RC` to append custom config to main section
- Introduce `IR_CONFIG_PARAMETER` to append to ir config section
- Move SSH key parameters from separate variables to `IR_CONFIG_PARAMETER`
- Update documentation and examples for new configuration options
- Fix inconsistent heading in README from "Test" to "Testing"

images/odoo/README.md, after:

[Mint System Odoo](https://odoo.build/images/odoo/)
===

[![Docker pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mintsystem/odoo)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mintsystem/odoo/)

A better Odoo image.

This container image is an improvement of the official Odoo image:

- 📦 Package management is handled with [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for Python and [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) for Node.
- 🔄 The Odoo source is based on a specific [revision](https://odoo.build/revisions.html).
- 💎 The image build process ensures reproducibility.
- ⚙️ Configuration of `odoo.conf` is managed through environment variables.
- 🌱 Addons are cloned from git repositories.
- 🛠️ Python packages can be installed without rebuilding the image.
- 📂 The system detects addons in nested module folders.
- 💾 Session information can be stored in the database.
- 🖥️ Environment name is retrieved from server configuration.
- 📋 Database initialization with selected modules.
- 📜 The image includes built-in [manifestoo](https://github.com/acsone/manifestoo) and [click-odoo-contrib](https://github.com/acsone/click-odoo-contrib).
- 🪴 The container runs without requiring root privileges.
- ✂️ Reduced image size through multi-stage build and file cleanup.
- 👀 Use the image to run module tests and create code coverage report.
- 🏥 Image has a built-in health check.

Source: <https://github.com/Mint-System/Odoo-Build/tree/main/images/odoo/>

Changelog: <https://odoo.build/images/odoo/CHANGELOG.html>

## Usage

The Mint System Odoo image runs with a very basic configuration, but can also be highly customized with environment variables.

Supported tags:

* `19.0.20251008`, `19.0`
* `18.0.20251008`, `18.0`
* `17.0.20251008`, `17.0`
* `16.0.20251008`, `16.0`

### Minimal

The following `compose.yml` is a minimal setup:

```yml
services:
  odoo:
    container_name: odoo
    image: mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008
    depends_on:
      - db
    environment:
      PGHOST: db
      PGUSER: odoo
      PGPASSWORD: odoo
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:8069:8069"
    volumes:
      - odoo-data:/var/lib/odoo
  db:
    container_name: db
    image: postgres:14-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: odoo
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: odoo
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
volumes:
  odoo-data:
  db-data:
```

### Customized

This `compose.yml` shows all possible configurations:

```yml
services:
  odoo:
    container_name: odoo
    image: mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008
    depends_on:
        db:
            condition: service_healthy
    environment:
      PGHOST: db
      PGUSER: odoo
      PGPASSWORD: odoo
      PGPORT: 5432
      DB_NAME: odoo
      DB_MAXCONN: 128
      PGSSLMODE: verify-ca
      PGSSLROOTCERT: /mnt/postgres-secret/ca.crt
      SMTP_SERVER: mail.infomaniak.com
      SMTP_PORT: 587
      SMTP_SSL: True
      SMTP_USER: odoo@yourcompany.com
      SMTP_PASSWORD: *****
      EMAIL_FROM: odoo@yourcompany.com
      MAIL_BOUNCE_ALIAS: bounce
      MAIL_CATCHALL_ALIAS: reply
      MAIL_CATCHALL_DOMAIN: yourcompany.com
      MAIL_DEFAULT_FROM: odoo
      MAIL_ALIAS_DOMAIN: yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_HOST: mail.infomaniak.com
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_PORT: 587
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_ENCRYPTION: starttls
      ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_FROM_FILTER: odoo@yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_HOST: mail.infomaniak.com
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_PORT: 993
      ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_SSL: True
      ODOO_MAIL_USERNAME: odoo@yourcompany.com
      ODOO_MAIL_PASSWORD: *****
      GIT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEY: "ssh-ed25519 BBBBC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5BBBBIDR9Ibi0mATjCyx1EYg594oFkY0rghtgo+pnFHOvAcym Mint-System-Project-MCC@github.com"
      GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY: "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBPUEVOU1NIIFBSSVZBVEUgS0VZLS0tLQpiM0JsYm5OemFDMXJaWGt0ZGpFQUFBQUFCRzV2Ym1VQUFBQUVibTl1WlFBQUFBQUFBQUFCQUFBQU13QUFBQXR6YzJndFpXClF5TlRVeE9RQUFBQ0EwZlNHNHRKZ0U0d3NzZFJHSU9mZUtCWkdOSzRJYllLUHFaeFJ6cndITXBnQUFBS2k1WkJhRnVXUVcKaFFBQUFBdHpjMmd0WldReU5UVXhPUUFBQUNBMGZTRzR0SmdFNHdzc2RSR0lPZmVLQlpTks0SWJZS1BxWnhSenJ3SE1wZwowQkFnTT0KLS0tLS1FTkQgT1BFTlNTSCBQUklWQVRFIEtFWS0tLS0tCg=="
      GITHUB_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      GITHUB_PAT: *****
      GITLAB_URL: https://gitlab.com
      GITLAB_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      GITLAB_PAT: *****
      FORGEJO_URL: https://codeberg.org
      FORGEJO_USERNAME: bot-mintsys
      FORGEJO_PAT: *****
      ADDONS_GIT_REPOS: "git@github.com:Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.git#16.0,git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git#16.0"
      ODOO_ADDONS_PATH: /mnt/addons/,/mnt/enterprise/,/mnt/oca/,/mnt/themes/
      ODOO_DATABASE: "16.0"
      ODOO_INIT_LOGIN: odoo
      ODOO_INIT_PASSWORD: *****
      ODOO_INIT_LANG: de_CH
      ODOO_INIT_ADDONS: server_environment_ir_config_parameter
      RUNNING_ENV: production
      WITHOUT_DEMO: False
      PYTHON_INSTALL: prometheus-client
      SERVER_WIDE_MODULES: session_db,module_change_auto_install
      SESSION_DB_URI: postgres://odoo:odoo@db/16.0
      PROXY_MODE: False
      LOG_LEVEL: debug
      MAX_CRON_THREADS: 4
      LIST_DB: True
      LOG_DB: True
      LOG_HANDLER: [':INFO']
      LOGFILE: None
      ADMIN_PASSWD: *****
      DB_FILTER: ^%d$
      WORKERS: 4
      LIMIT_REQUEST: 16384
      LIMIT_TIME_CPU: 300
      LIMIT_TIME_REAL: 600
      LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD: 2684354560
      LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT: 2147483648
      LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD_GEVENT: 1048579
      LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT_GEVENT: 1048576
      MODULE_AUTO_INSTALL_DISABLED: odoo_test_xmlrunner
      AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES: True
      TEST_ADDONS_DIR: /mnt/oca/partner-contact
      TEST_INCLUDE: partner_firstname
      TEST_EXCLUDE: partner_fax
      AUTO_UPDATE_TRANSLATIONS: True
      AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES_LIST: True
      ADDITIONAL_ODOO_RC: "syslog = True"
      IR_CONFIG_PARAMETER: "web.base.url = https://odoo.example.com"
    ports:
      - "127.0.0.1:8069:8069"
    volumes:
      - odoo-data:/var/lib/odoo
      - ./addons:/mnt/addons
      - ./oca:/mnt/oca
      - ./enterprise:/mnt/enterprise
      - ./themes:/mnt/themes
  db:
    container_name: db
    image: postgres:14-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: odoo
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: odoo
      PGDATA: /var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    volumes:
      - db-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data/pgdata
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U odoo -d $ODOO_DATABASE"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 5
volumes:
  odoo-data:
  db-data:
```

The environment variables are explained in detail further down.

## Lifecycle

The Mint System Odoo image has this container lifecycle in mind:

* **Initialize**: Clone addons and initialize the database.
* **Start**: The container starts and updates the execution environment.
* **Execute**: Actions performed while the container is running.
* **Analyze**: Analyse the current state of the container.
* **Test**: Test modules in the container.

### Initialize

Before starting the container you can initalize the database with selected scripts.

Run the `download-git-archive` script to download the Odoo Enterprise modules:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo download-git-archive
```

Run the `clone-git-addons` script to clone module repos:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo clone-git-addons
```

Run the `init-db` script to initalize the Odoo database:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo init-db
```

The scripts are configured with environment variables.

### Start

Once you start the container the `entrypoint.sh` script will:

* Call the `aggregate-git-repos` script and clone modules.
* Run the `template-odoo-rc` script to template the `odoo.conf` file.
* While doing so assemble the addons path with `set-addons-path`.
* Run the `install-python-packages` script to install the Python packages.
* Wait for the database to be ready.
* Run the `update-modules` script if enabled.
* Run the `update-modules-list` script if enabled.
* Run the `update-translations` script if enabled.
* Start the Odoo server.

### Execute

Once the container is running, install modules with:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo init-module partner_firstname
```

Or update specific modules with this command:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-module partner_firstname
```

There is also the possiblity to update all modules:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-modules
```

Or update the modules list (refresh the list of available modules from the addons path):

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-modules-list
```

For each installed module Odoo computes and stores a checksum in the database. The update modules script compares the checksum and updates all modules that have changed.

Updating module translations is simple:

```bash
docker compose exec odoo update-translations
```

Not that existing translations will be overwritten.

### Analyze

With the [manifestoo](https://github.com/acsone/manifestoo) cli you can query the module manifest files.

List all modules:

```bash
docker exec odoo bash -c "manifestoo --select-found list --separator=,"
```

### Test

The `run-tests` script runs module tests and produces a `coverage.xml` file.

But first the server environment must be prepared to run tests.

```bash
docker exec odoo setup-tests
```

Once this command is finished, run the module tests.

```bash
docker exec odoo run-tests
```

## Environment Variables

The container can be configured with environment variables. This section shows all the variables in detail:

### Database Connection

Odoo supports the PostgreSQL database only.

* `PGHOST` Name of the database container.
* `PGUSER` Database username.
* `PGPASSWORD` Database user password.
* `PGPORT` Postgres server port. Default is `5432`.
* `DB_NAME` Fixed database name. Default is ``.
* `DB_MAXCONN`: Maximum database connection. default is `64`.
* `PGSSLMODE`: SSL mode for postgres connection. Default is `prefer`.
* `PGSSLROOTCERT`: Path too ssl root cert. Required when using `verify-ca` mode.

### SMTP Server

This is the mail configuration of the Odoo server.

* `SMTP_SERVER` Adress of the SMTP server.
* `SMTP_PORT` Port of the SMTP server.
* `SMTP_SSL` Use ssl encryption.
* `SMTP_USER` SMTP username.
* `SMTP_PASSWORD` SMTP user password.
* `EMAIL_FROM` Mail adress of the sender.

### System Parameters

Set mail parameters for the company.

* `MAIL_BOUNCE_ALIAS`: Name of the bounce mail adress.
* `MAIL_CATCHALL_ALIAS`: Name of the reply-to mail adress.
* `MAIL_CATCHALL_DOMAIN`: Domain name of the reply-to mail address.
* `MAIL_DEFAULT_FROM`: From address for outgoing mails.
* `MAIL_ALIAS_DOMAIN`: Mail domain of the company.

### Incoming and Outgoing Mail-Server

Setup mail configuration for the database.

* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_HOST`: If set Odoo sends mails to this host.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_PORT`: SMTP port. Default is `587`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_ENCRYPTION`: SMTP encryption type. Default is `starttls`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_SMTP_FROM_FILTER`: Send mails from this address only. Default is `""`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_HOST`: If set Odoo fetches mails from this host.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_PORT`: IMAP port. Default is `993`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_IMAP_SSL`: Enable IMAP SSL. Default is `True`.
* `ODOO_MAIL_USERNAME`: Username of the Odoo mailbox.
* `ODOO_MAIL_PASSWORD`: Password of the Odoo mailbox.

The configuration will be applied to the `ODOO_DATABASE` database.

### Module Repos

The image can clone git repositories.

* `GIT_SSH_PUBLIC_KEY`: Public key for SSH connection.
* `GIT_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`: Base64 encoded private key for SSH connection: `cat ~/.ssh/id_ed2551 | base64 -w0`
* `GITHUB_USERNAME` GitHub username for https git clone and archive download.
* `GITHUB_PAT`: GitHub access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `GITLAB_URL`: Url of GitLab instance. Default is `https://gitlab.com`.
* `GITLAB_USERNAME`: GitLab Username for https git clone.
* `GITLAB_PAT`: GitLab access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `FORGEJO_URL`: Url of Forgejo instance. Default is `https://codeberg.org`.
* `FORGEJO_USERNAME`: Forgejo Username for https git clone.
* `FORGEJO_PAT`: Forgejo access token for https git clone and archive download.
* `ADDONS_GIT_REPOS` Comma seperated list of git clone urls appended with `#` and branch name.

You can use https and git urls for `ADDONS_GIT_REPOS`:

```bash
ADDON_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git#16.0,git@github.com:Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.gi#16.0
ADDON_GIT_REPO=https://github.com/OCA/server-tools.git#16.0,https://github.com/Mint-System/Odoo-Apps-Server-Tools.gi#16.0
```

If you use a git url make sure a valid SSH private/public key is defined.

### Addons Path

The entrypoint script searches for module folders in the addons path and creates a new addons path.

* `ODOO_ADDONS_PATH` Comma seperated list of container paths pointing to addon folders.

### Initialize

Set these environment variables for the database init:

* `ODOO_DATABASE` Name of the Odoo database for initialisation.
* `ODOO_INIT_LOGIN` Username of the admin user. Default is `admin`.
* `ODOO_INIT_PASSWORD` Password of the admin user. Default is `admin`.
* `ODOO_INIT_LANG` Language used for database init. Default is `en_US`.
* `ODOO_INIT_ADDONS` Provide comma separated list of modules for database init. Default is `web`.
* `WITHOUT_DEMO` If enabled Odoo inits the database with demo data. Default is `True`.

### Server Environment

The Odoo server can be configured using these env vars:

* `RUNNING_ENV` Provide an environment name. Can be accessed with `config.get("environment")`.
* `PYTHON_INSTALL` Comma seperated list of python packages.
* `SERVER_WIDE_MODULES` Comma separated list of modules to load with server. The variable will be prefixed with `base,web`.
* `SESSION_DB_URI` Connection string for storing session data in database.
* `PROXY_MODE` Enable server proxy mode. Default is `True`.
* `LOG_LEVEL` Set the logging level. Default is `info`.
* `LOG_DB` When enabled the database log is shown in the Odoo log. Default is `False`.
* `LOG_HANDLER` Define the log handler. Default is `[':INFO']`.
* `LOGFILE` Set the logging level. Default is `None`.

### Database Manager

The Odoo database manager is disabled by default.

* `LIST_DB` Enable the database manager. Default is `False`.
* `ADMIN_PASSWD` Master password for database manager. Default is `odoo`.
* `DB_FILTER` Set filter for database name. Default is `.*`.

### Process Limits

Odoo is executed as a multi-threaded Python process.

* `MAX_CRON_THREADS` Maximum count of cron threads. Default is `2`.
* `WORKERS` Define how many workers should be spawned. Default is `0`.
* `LIMIT_REQUEST` Maximum number of requests per worker. Default is `65536`.
* `LIMIT_TIME_CPU` Maximum cpu time per request. Default is `60`.
* `LIMIT_TIME_REAL` Maximum real time per request. Default is `120`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD` Hard memory limit for the Odoo process. Default is `2560 * 1024 * 1024`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT` Soft memory limit for the Odoo process. Default is `2048 * 1024 * 1024`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_HARD_GEVENT` Set hard memory limit for the gevent process. Default is `False`.
* `LIMIT_MEMORY_SOFT_GEVENT` Set soft memory limit for the gevent process. Default is `False`.

To calculate the amount of workers multply the amount of cpu cores by 2. To get the cpu core count run `nproc`.

### Module Auto Install

With the `module_change_auto_install` module you can disable the auto installation of specific modules.

* `MODULE_AUTO_INSTALL_DISABLED` Comma separated list of modules that should be auto installed. Requires `module_change_auto_install` in `SERVER_WIDE_MODULES`.

### Module Auto Update

The container uses [click-odoo-contrib](https://github.com/acsone/click-odoo-contrib) to update Odoo modules. The auto update is disabled by default.

* `AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES` If enabled modules will updated when the container is started.  Default is `False`.
* `AUTO_UPDATE_TRANSLATIONS` If enabled translatiosn will be updated when the container starts. Default is `False`.
* `AUTO_UPDATE_MODULES_LIST` If enabled, the modules list will be updated when the container starts. Default is `False`.

Both options require `ODOO_DATABASE` and `ODOO_ADDONS_PATH`.

### Testing

With this image you can also run module tests.

* `TEST_ADDONS_DIR`: Provide the directory with the modules that should be tests.
* `TEST_INCLUDE` Comma separated list of modules that should be test exlusively.
* `TEST_EXCLUDE`: Comma separated list of modules that should not be tested.

### Additional Config

If you have additional config for Odoo use the vars:

* `ADDITIONAL_ODOO_RC`: Added to the main section of the odoo.conf.
* `IR_CONFIG_PARAMETER`: Added to the `ir.config_parameter` section of the odoo.conf.

### Naming

This image tries to stay compatible with other images such as <https://github.com/acsone/odoo-bedrock> or <https://github.com/Tecnativa/doodba>.

Compatibility with other images is mainly achieved by using the same environments variables and offering the same functionality.

## Files

### Git Aggregator

The image includes [git-aggregator](https://github.com/acsone/git-aggregator). It allows to clone and merge addon repos from different origins and branches.

When mounting your `repos.yml` to `/var/lib/odoo/git/repos.yml` the `entrypoint.sh` will run the `gitaggregate` command in the directory.

Here is an example for `repos.yml`:

```yaml
github/oca/server-tools:
  remotes:
    oca: git@github.com:OCA/server-tools.git
  merges:
    - oca 18.0
  target: oca 18.0
```

## Build

This image can be customized by any extend.

### Install packages

Update the image with Python packages.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

RUN uv pip install prometheus-client astor fastapi python-multipart ujson a2wsgi parse-accept-language pyjwt
```

Or with apt packages.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y libgl1-mesa-glx poppler-utils tesseract-ocr
```

### Add custom Odoo conf

Copy custom Odoo conf file to the image.

```dockerfile
FROM mintsystem/odoo:18.0.20251008

COPY ./odoo.conf.template /etc/odoo/
```

## Develop

See [Odoo Build > Build and publish container image](https://odoo.build/#build-and-publish-container-image) for details.

### Internal paths

The most important image paths are:

* `/etc/odoo` Contains the `odoo.conf` and `odoo.conf.template` files.
* `/mnt/extra-addons` Nested are loaded from this path by default.
* `/mnt/test-addons` Recommended mount path for modules to test.
* `/opt/odoo/addons` Contains the Odoo Community Edition modules.
* `/opt/odoo/enterprise` Odoo Enterprise modules are downloaded to this folder.
* `/opt/odoo-venv` This is where Python packages are installed.
* `/var/lib/odoo` Odoo data folder.
* `/var/lib/odoo/filestore` For every database name Odoo creates a filestore.
* `/var/lib/odoo/sessions` Location where werkzeug stores session information.
* `/var/lib/odoo/git` The cloned module repos are stored here.

### Capture memory profile

With [memray](https://bloomberg.github.io/memray/) you can visualize the memory usage of Odoo.

Run Odoo with memray.

```bash
docker compose exec -p 127.0.0.1:8069:8069 odoo memray
```

Finish the recording with <kbd>ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>.

Generate the flamegraph and copy the flamegraph to the host.

```bash
docker compose exec odoo python3 -m memray flamegraph /var/lib/odoo/memray-capture.bin
docker cp odoo:/var/lib/odoo/memray-flamegraph-capture.html ./tmp/
```
